## [24/01/2023]

## What is this?

This is where I will note down stuff that comes to mind during the development of this blogging website. My plan is to turn this into an actual blog post once the project is complete.

## About the project

Well, the project is a simple blogging website for personal use. I was starting to develop real web development projects and thought a blogging site would be the best one to start. It will not only help me regularly write down my development journey but also will be relatively easy so that I can learn how an actual project should be designed, developed, and deployed.

## The beginning

First, I created a directory called `Blog` and created a new react project using Create-React-App with the name `blog-site`.
I initialized a git in `Blog` and committed all changes.

<hr/>

## [25/01/2023]

### Tiptap

Now the first thing I decided to do is to experiment with a rich text editor. I found a lot of options but chose to go with [TipTap](https://tiptap.dev/), as it offers a lot of customizability and all the essential features I want. I installed TipTap and started to try out different things I could do with it. I used the `StarterKit` first and then installed the `extension-image` for supporting images.

### Tiptap Images

The `extension-image` extension from tiptap is fundamental. It does not support ways to change the size of images, which is a feature I want in the editor. But fortunately, they provide ways to extend the extensions to fit our needs. I followed a blog post on [adding functionalities to image extension](https://aboutweb.dev/blog/tiptap2-vue3-extending-image-functionality/) to add the features I wanted. The blog is written for Vue, but I am confident I can use that as a base for React.

I made a button to create an image, and a BubbleMenu to change the size of the menu to either 'small', 'medium', 'large'. Currently the editor is very basic but I can easily implement more features to it in the coming days. I [committed](https://github.com/Ajoy10/blog/commit/95d354fb0536fc804547986713bc664101f67f87) all progress

<hr/>

## [26/01/2023]

### UI For the editor

I made some designs for the editor using Figma. Mainly some formatting options and the 'Add Image' option. I implemented them using SCSS. I am also using Carbon Icons for the icons.
I also wanted to add the option to align the text items, but to do this, I had to use another extension for TipTap called `extension-text-align.` I installed it and created buttons for different alignments and styled them.
Then I added some max and min width for the editor area, added scrolling, and removed the default scroll bars. I am unsure whether I will implement custom scrollbars in the future or keep it without scrollbars. I [committed](https://github.com/ajoy10/blog/commit/ae7fa2be5dbab874027da6905e50187bacdb045f) all the changes

## [27/01/2023]

### Proper Image Upload

Currently, when you press the button to add an image, it is just inserting an image from a fixed URL. Obviously, this is not what we want. The TipTap setImage() function expects an src, so my plan is to create a modal that popups and asks the user to select an image and retrieve the src of the image and give it to the setImage() function. For this, I need a Popup Modal and a File Uploader. I did some research and found [NiceModal](https://github.com/ebay/nice-modal-react) and [FilePond](https://pqina.nl/filepond/), both seem to fit my requirements.

#### NiceModal

NiceModal does not provide the styling for the modal; they are recommending using ant-design, material-design, or bootstrap. But since I am not using any of those libraries in the project, importing them just for one or two components would be unnecessary. So I decided to write my own Modal component.

### FilePond

Once I created the basic Modal component, I installed FilePond and implemented them inside an ImageInsertPopup. Currently, I am converting the uploaded files to an URL using URL.createObjectURL() and then adding them using setImage() from TipTap. But in the future, I will change this to upload the images to the server, get the URL back, and use it in setImage(). This might be necessory once the document is needed to be converted into html, as I don't think a URL in the localhost can be used for images in somewhere else.

[Commit](https://github.com/ajoy10/blog/commit/ed379a035a69869cfd3ad3dd4b93cc736571f5b6)

## [31-01-2023]

### Setting up backend API

I first set up a basic node js + express api with a basic folder structure. Then I created [some rough database design](./Blog%20Database.drawio) using draw.io(a.k.a diagram.net). I have decided to use PostgreSQL as the database, and I have decided not to use an ORM model because the database is relatively simple, and I can use this project to learn more about Postgres as this is the first time I am working on it.
For the api, I am using a folder structure that organizes everything based on the functionality rather than the usual- model, control, routes, etc. This way, in the future, when I want to reuse any of the features (such as reusing auth), it will be easier this way.

### Authentication

I have been working on user registration. I don't know if it is a good idea to implement auth this early in the project. It might make testing different api routes difficult. But I am motivated to do the authentication for some reason, and I started doing it.

I did not commit today as the registration still needed to be completed.

<hr/>
## [01/02/2023]

I finished up register route and [committed]().
